{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99985\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c87059;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12380\viewh21300\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 Here is my solution to the percolation problem.  We\'92re given a 2D lattice of sites that are blocked with probability P or open.  We fill the top layer of the lattice with water and search if water percolates through the porous lattice to the bottom.  Below are my answers to the related questions.\
\
The original problem is given at this link:\
https://github.com/williamgilpin/cphy/blob/main/hw/cellular_automata_complexity.ipynb\
\
1.  \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Perform replicate simulations using the code I've provided below, and create a plot showing how the probability of percolation changes as a function of\'a0p (the blockage probability). Beyond seeing the predictable percolation to clogging transition, you'll notice that the variance in the outcome of your simulations behaves unexpectedly. What is going on here? (Hint: If you've studied the Ising model, you've seen something like this before)\
	We see for small or large blocking probabilities, the outcome is pretty certain \'97 it will percolate or not, respectively.  Around P~0.4, we hit a critical point and the percolation probability quickly transitions from high to low.  Around this point, the variance in the outcomes spikes up (shown in the peak of the graph) whereas for low or high blocked probabilities, the variance is low because our outcome is nearly certain to percolate or not.\
\
2.  Theoretically, does the transition point seen in our empirical results align with your intuition? Can you make a simple statistical argument for the percolation threshold? (Hint: think about counting occupied sites versus counting links between sites).\
	It does align with my intuition.  For low occupancy rates, water will flow through and it should percolate easily.  The opposite is true for high blockage probabilities.  I would expect the threshold to occur around 1/2, but we see it occur around 2/5.\
\
3.  How does the memory usage and runtime of your percolation model implement scale with the lattice size? You can answer this empirically or theoretically.\
	The memory should just scale with the size of the lattice N because we only need to store the lattice (not additional copies).  The runtime, however, should scale longer than N but not as long as N^2, so O(N LogN).\
\
4.  One way to sweep the control parameter\'a0p would be to start in a limit where most of the sites are blocked, and then gradually open up individual sites one at a time until the lattice percolates. A video of a simulation where the lattice is gradually opened can be seen\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vimeo.com/747772333"}}{\fldrslt here}}. How do the different events in the gradually unblocked percolation simulation relate to the two timescales we saw in the sandpile problem?\
	The two timescales we saw in the sandpile problem were the fast timescale of individual grain drops which occurred with each step.  The longer timescale was the 1/T^\uc0\u945  dependence we saw on the avalanche durations.  In this model, the \'91fast\'92 timescale is the unblocking sites at each iterations (grain drops in previous problem), whereas the long timescale is the water filling the grid when a block-unblocked transition exposes a cavity to water.}